Release 4.6.29 update (#3144)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/update_and_migration/from_4.6/update_from_4.6.md

## v4.6.28

### GraphQL package update

Due to the [GHSA-68jq-c3rv-pcrr security issue](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-68jq-c3rv-pcrr), the GraphQL package requirements have been updated to allow installing higher versions where this issue is resolved.

When doing the update, you have two options:

#### Update GraphQL packages and custom code (recommended)

Make sure the `webonyx/graphql-php` package to installed in a version higher or equal to 15.31.5.

If you [extended GraphQL to support custom field types](graphql_custom_ft.md), update the returned expression from `@=resolver(...)` to `@=query(...)` and change the argument syntax from an array to variadic arguments as in the following example:

```diff
-return sprintf('@=resolver("MyFieldValue", [field, %s])', $myArg);
+return sprintf('@=query("MyFieldValue", field, %s)', $myArg);
```

Then, regenerate the GraphQL schema by running:

``` bash
rm -rf config/graphql/types/ibexa/
php bin/console ibexa:graphql:generate-schema
```

#### Implement other countermeasures

> If updating the GraphQL packages isn't possible right now, for example because the project is using PHP 7.4 where the fix is not available, review the security issue carefully and asses the danger.

Reviewer: 🍑⚠️ "asses the danger" 🤣

```suggestion
If updating the GraphQL packages isn't possible right now, for example because the project is using PHP 7.4 where the fix is not available, review the security issue carefully and assess the danger.
[PHP 7.4 imposes an old version v0.14.x of `overblog/graphql-bundle`](https://github.com/overblog/GraphQLBundle/blob/v0.14.4/composer.json#L31) which [depends on old unfixed version v14.x of `webonyx/graphql-php`](https://github.com/overblog/GraphQLBundle/blob/v0.14.4/composer.json#L46). To have [the fix coming with `webonyx/graphql-php` v15.31.5](https://github.com/webonyx/graphql-php/security/advisories/GHSA-68jq-c3rv-pcrr), you must be at least on PHP 8.0 or above.
```

Author: Thank you 🙈

If you choose to implement countermeasures without updating the packages, you can silence the advisory in `composer.json`:

```json
"config": {
    "audit": {
        "ignore": {

>             "GHSA-68jq-c3rv-pcrr": "Description of the countermeasures you've implemented."

Reviewer: I wouldn't be generic here, real reason instead of a placeholder that might not be filed:

```suggestion
            "GHSA-68jq-c3rv-pcrr": "Ignore DoS risk on old graphql-bundle and graphql-php"
```

Author: I don't want to suggest that people should ignore this 😄 

In (my) ideal world, the entry here would say something like:

"We ignore this CVE because even though we use an outdated package, the graphql endpoint is blocked by our firewall - name of the firewall rule - to make sure nobody has access to it."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "GHSA-68jq-c3rv-pcrr": "We shouldn't ignore this but…"
```

Reviewer: So, maybe we should give countermeasures examples like
- not using graphql and ensure it can't be accessed
- using graphql being a strategy ensuring it's only accessed by trusted third parties
- …

Author: Added some examples, maybe that helps

Prior, `0` was interpreted as "no length limit".
Now, `0` is interpreted as "length limited to zero characters" and `NULL` as "no length limit".

## v4.6.29

### GraphQL package update

Due to the [GHSA-68jq-c3rv-pcrr security issue](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-68jq-c3rv-pcrr), the GraphQL package requirements have been updated to allow installing higher versions in which this issue is resolved.

When doing the update, you have two options:

#### Update GraphQL packages and custom code (recommended)

> Make sure the `webonyx/graphql-php` package to installed in a version higher or equal to 15.31.5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure the `webonyx/graphql-php` package is installed in a version higher or equal to v15.31.5.
```

If you [extended GraphQL to support custom field types](graphql_custom_ft.md), update the returned expression from `@=resolver(...)` to `@=query(...)` and change the argument syntax from an array to variadic arguments as in the following example:

```diff
-return sprintf('@=resolver("MyFieldValue", [field, %s])', $myArg);
+return sprintf('@=query("MyFieldValue", field, %s)', $myArg);
```

Then, regenerate the GraphQL schema by running:

``` bash
rm -rf config/graphql/types/ibexa/
php bin/console ibexa:graphql:generate-schema
```

#### Implement other countermeasures

If updating the GraphQL packages isn't possible right now, for example because the project is using PHP 7.4 where the fix is not available, review the security issue carefully and assess the danger.

If you choose to implement countermeasures without updating the GraphQL packages, for example by restricting access to the GrapQL endpoint with rate limiting, authentication, or [WAF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_application_firewall), then you can silence the advisory in `composer.json`:

```json
"config": {
    "audit": {
        "ignore": {

>             "GHSA-68jq-c3rv-pcrr": "Description of the countermeasures you've implemented causing this one to be safe to ignore."

Reviewer 2: Good stuff! Very good advice in this section.
